README.md, before:

# Java Framework Applications

A collection of applications built using the End House Software Java Framework.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### Prerequisites

To run locally you need the [Java JRE/JDK](https://www.java.com/en/download/) and the [MySQL server](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/) to be installed. 

### Database Structure

Create a MySQL database and then place the database host, database name, username and password in the **classes/common/ehsConstants.java** file. Next use the **classes/common/dbcreate.sql** file to create the database tables.

## Notes

**classes/common/ehsContants.java** - Constants and Variables definitions bridge file between the application code and JAVA framework code.

**classes/common/syntaxeditorpane.css** - Style sheet used in the JAVA framework color syntx editor control.

**classes/common/ttkey.txt** - Key for the translation table editor.

**classes/common/containerclasses.dat** - CSV list of container class names used in the UML Workbench application.

**classes/common/dbcreate.sql** - SQL statment to create MySQL database used by the JAVA framework.

**appname/src/drawingCanvas.java** - Java framework drawing canvas class (has to exist at the application directory level).

**appname/src/transtableeditor.java** - Java framework translate table editor classes (has to exist at the application directory level).

## Deployment

The following batch files exist to run the HDL workbench, the UML workbench and the example Template application.

* hdlwb [status] [gui] [trace] [symbolfump] [about] filename
* umlwb [status] [gui] [trace] [symbolfump] [about] filename
* temlate [status] [gui] [trace] [symbolfump] [about]

## Built With

* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/
) - IDE enviroment.
* [Eclipse Editor](www.eclipse.org) - IDE enviroment.
* [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) - Dependency Management


## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://gist.github.com/gavinbaker999/073f0f50ac7995f32862cc407f649b5a) for details on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us.

## Versioning

We use [SemVer](http://semver.org/) for versioning.  

## Authors

* **Gavin Baker** - *Initial work* - [End House Software](endhousesoftware.byethost11.com).


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](https://gist.github.com/gavinbaker999/3609836877901fa5d449138988fe1d28) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

First and foremost many thanks to the support of family and friends. Any code adapted from public available sources have the appropriate acknowledgements documented in source code comments.

Commit message:

Updated README.md for database env vars, ehsConstants.java now reads these env vars and registrationinfo.java now writes the correct time to db when you logon

README.md, after:

# Java Framework Applications

A collection of applications built using the End House Software Java Framework.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### Prerequisites

To run locally you need the [Java JRE/JDK](https://www.java.com/en/download/) and the [MySQL server](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/) to be installed. 

### Database Structure

Use the **classes/common/dbcreate.sql** file to create the **MySQL** database and tables (you will need to edit the **dbcreate.sql** file to change the database name), and then place the database name, username and password in the following environment variables **LOCALDBNAME**, **LOCALDBUSER** and **LOCALDBPASSWORD**. Note: The database host is assumed to be **localhost** and the database table names can not be changed.

## Notes

**classes/common/ehsContants.java** - Constants and Variables definitions bridge file between the application code and JAVA framework code.

**classes/common/syntaxeditorpane.css** - Style sheet used in the JAVA framework color syntx editor control.

**classes/common/ttkey.txt** - Key for the translation table editor.

**classes/common/containerclasses.dat** - CSV list of container class names used in the UML Workbench application.

**classes/common/dbcreate.sql** - SQL statment to create MySQL database used by the JAVA framework.

**appname/src/drawingCanvas.java** - Java framework drawing canvas class (has to exist at the application directory level).

**appname/src/transtableeditor.java** - Java framework translate table editor classes (has to exist at the application directory level).

## Deployment

The following batch files exist to run the HDL workbench, the UML workbench and the example Template application.

* hdlwb [status] [gui] [trace] [symbolfump] [about] filename
* umlwb [status] [gui] [trace] [symbolfump] [about] filename
* temlate [status] [gui] [trace] [symbolfump] [about]

## Built With

* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/
) - IDE enviroment.
* [Eclipse Editor](www.eclipse.org) - IDE enviroment.
* [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) - Dependency Management


## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://gist.github.com/gavinbaker999/073f0f50ac7995f32862cc407f649b5a) for details on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us.

## Versioning

We use [SemVer](http://semver.org/) for versioning.  

## Authors

* **Gavin Baker** - *Initial work* - [End House Software](endhousesoftware.byethost11.com).


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](https://gist.github.com/gavinbaker999/3609836877901fa5d449138988fe1d28) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

First and foremost many thanks to the support of family and friends. Any code adapted from public available sources have the appropriate acknowledgements documented in source code comments.
